HARI SREENIVASAN: Good evening.
I'm Hari Sreenivasan.
Judy Woodruff is away.
On tonight's "PBS NewsHour":
a White House shakeup.
Press Secretary Sean Spicer
resigns after a disagreement
with President Trump -- what
the change means for the
administration, as it
struggles to stay on message.
Also ahead, 50 years after the
Detroit riots, we ask how those
tumultuous times have shaped
relations between the city's
white and black communities.
SOLEDAD O'BRIEN: Is the
city of Detroit better
off today than it was?
LORETTA HOLMES,
Detroit: Heck no.
SOLEDAD O'BRIEN: In the '60s?
LORETTA HOLMES: No.
SOLEDAD O'BRIEN: Better
off than five years ago?
LORETTA HOLMES:
Than five years ago?
Yes, because now I
can see the change.
HARI SREENIVASAN:
And it's Friday.
Mark Shields and David Brooks
are here to analyze yet
another busy week of news.
Plus, Barefoot Contessa.
Ina Garten invites us into her
kitchen to tell us the story
of how she went from a federal
bureaucrat to a
household name, as one of
America's beloved cooks.
INA GARTEN, Chef: I taught
myself how to cook when
I worked in Washington
using Julia Child's
cookbooks.
HARI SREENIVASAN:
All that and more on
tonight's "PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
HARI SREENIVASAN: Moving and
shaking today in the White
House communications staff.
Sean Spicer resigned as press
secretary after just six months,
saying the president needs
a -- quote -- "clean slate."
But it was widely reported that
he objected to the naming of
Wall Street financier Anthony
Scaramucci as
communications director.
At a White House briefing,
Scaramucci sought to play
down talk of any discord.
ANTHONY SCARAMUCCI, Incoming
White House Communications
Director: For me, as
it relates to Sean, it
speaks volumes to who he
is as a human being, who
he is as a team player.
OK?
So his attitude is, if
Anthony's coming in, let me
clear the slate for Anthony.
And I do appreciate that about
Sean, and I love him for it.
But I don't have any
friction with Sean.
HARI SREENIVASAN:
Scaramucci also named
Spicer's deputy, Sarah
Huckabee Sanders, to be the
new press secretary.
In a statement, President Trump
praised Spicer's work, and said
-- quote -- "Just look at his
great television ratings."
The spokesman for the
president's legal team, Mark
Corallo, also resigned today.
That came amid reports that the
lawyers are hunting possible
conflicts of interest by
special counsel Robert Mueller.
Mueller is investigating Russian
meddling in the 2016 election.
The White House would neither
confirm nor deny the reports.
The president's lead lawyer did
deny a Washington Post account
that they're examining whether
Mr. Trump could pardon
relatives, aides
and even himself.
We will take a closer
look at all of this
after the news summary.
Israeli-Palestinian
tensions erupted into
street battles today between
police and protesters
in Jerusalem and the West Bank.
At least three Palestinians were
killed, and nearly 400 hurt.
Exploding stun grenades
drowned out Friday prayers in
Jerusalem, as ambulance sirens
wailed.
Palestinians called it a
day of rage, protesting
Israel's installation
of metal detectors at
a holy site revered by
both Muslims and Jews.
MAN (through translator):
This place is made
for worshipping God.
They cannot prevent Muslims
from entering to pray.
They are acting against God.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The Israelis
put up the metal detectors
after Arab-Israeli gunmen
killed two police
officers last Friday.
It happened at the complex known
as the Temple Mount to Jews and
the Noble Sanctuary to Muslims.
Inside, Al-Aqsa Mosque, the
third holiest site in Islam, and
the Dome of the Rock, they're
bordered by the Western Wall,
the holiest site in Judaism.
Tensions have been building
ever since the shooting.
Overnight, the streets of
Jerusalem's Old City were
filled with protesters throwing
stones and security forces
firing back with grenades.
Today, police refused to
remove the metal detectors, and
barred Muslim men younger than
50 from entering the holy site.
Security checkpoints also
blocked busloads of Muslims
traveling to Jerusalem.
MICKY ROSENFELD, Israeli
Police Spokesman: The security
measures will continue in and
around the area of the Old City
and the Temple Mount, in order
to prevent any further terrorist
attacks.
HARI SREENIVASAN: But the
grand mufti of Jerusalem
rallied thousands of
Muslims to pray outside
the gates of the old city, under
the watch of Israeli forces.
He predicted a
long test of wills.
AMIN AL-HUSSEINI, Grand Mufti of
Jerusalem (through translator):
We do accept any restrictions
on the door of the
Al-Aqsa Mosque.
Therefore, all the Palestinian
people reject these gates
and refuse to accept or enter
through them.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The violence
broke out after prayers, and
spilled over to towns across
the West Bank.
Later, the day of rage
turned to grief, as
mourners held a funeral
for one of the Palestinian
dead.
And a Palestinian stabbed
three Israelis to death
in a West Bank settlement.
Tonight, Palestinian President
Mahmoud Abbas announced he's
freezing contacts with Israel
on all levels.
In Afghanistan, the
U.S. military confirms
that a NATO airstrike
mistakenly killed Afghan
troops today.
Officials say it happened during
an operation against Taliban
fighters in Helmand Province
in the south.
The provincial governor
says at least two
Afghan commanders died.
Secretary of State Rex Tillerson
is urging Gulf nations to
lift their economic blockade
of Qatar.
Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Egypt and
the UAE have imposed sanctions
on Qatar over charges of
financing terror groups.
Today, Tillerson met with
the Omani foreign minister.
He commended the oil
state's efforts to comply
with an agreement on
curbing terror financing.
REX TILLERSON, U.S. Secretary
of State: They have been very
aggressive in implementing
that agreement.
So we are -- I think we're
satisfied with the effort
they are putting forth.
I think they also have indicated
a willingness to sit with the
four parties and negotiate,
discuss the demands.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Meanwhile,
Qatar's emir denounced the
blockade as a smear campaign,
but said he's open to dialogue.
President Trump is demanding
that Iran release the American
citizens it is holding.
In a statement this evening,
the White House warned of new
and serious consequences unless
Tehran frees all unjustly
imprisoned Americans.
At least three U.S. citizens
are currently jailed in Iran.
A powerful earthquake shook
the coasts of Turkey and
Greece early today, killing at
least two people.
The quake was centered near the
Greek island of Kos, and the
Turkish tourist hub of Bodrum.
Nearly 500 people were injured,
and the tremor caused heavy
damage to buildings, roads and
historical sites.
Thousands of tourists were
forced to sleep outdoors.
Some tried to leave,
but got stranded.
WOMAN (through translator):
We were woken up at
1:30 in the morning.
We were wondering what happened.
Everything was shaking.
We panicked and didn't
know what was going on.
So, we quickly gathered our
stuff and went out of the hotel,
because, as it was several
floors high, we didn't want
it to fall on our heads.
Everyone was out in the street.
It was a massive panic.
In the hotel lobby, vases
and lamps were upside down.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The two
people killed were identified as
tourists from Turkey and Sweden.
The State Department has
announced a ban on Americans
traveling to North Korea.
A statement today cited
the serious risk of
arrest and long-term
detention in the North.
The move follows the death of
college student Otto Warmbier.
He was jailed in North
Korea on a charge of
stealing a propaganda
poster, then sent home
in a coma.
He died last month.
And on Wall Street, stocks
ended the week in retreat.
The Dow Jones industrial
average lost 31 points
to close at 21580.
The Nasdaq fell two
points, and the S&P 500
lost about one point.
For the week, the Dow was
down a fraction of a percent.
The Nasdaq rose more than
1 percent, and the S&P
was up half-a-percent.
Still to come on the
"NewsHour": multiple White House
shakeups, Press Secretary Sean
Spicer and the president's
legal team; the partisanship
that's plagued efforts to revamp
the nation's health care;
Mark Shields and David Brooks
analyze the week's news; and
much more.
It was a tumultuous day in
the Trump administration,
with a major shakeup
involving the public
faces of the Trump presidency.
All this came among new reports
of conflict within Mr. Trump's
legal team, as they prepare
to respond to the
investigation by special
counsel Robert Mueller.
We break it down now
with Rosalind Helderman,
political enterprise and
investigations reporter
for The Washington Post.
Thanks for joining us.
What's the Trump legal
team's strategy to deal
with this investigation?
ROSALIND HELDERMAN, The
Washington Post: Well, we
reported today that the
legal team is examining
a broad array of options that
would allow it -- or would
lead to the restraining or
restricting of the special
counsel's investigation.
At present, they say they are
cooperating with special counsel
Bob Mueller, but we understand
that they are doing research
into possible conflicts by
Bob Mueller himself, conflicts
of interest or members of his
staff that he is assembling.
Keep in mind that conflict of
interest is one of the only
things in the regulations
establishing the special
counsel that can be used by
the attorney general or in this
case the acting attorney
general, Rod Rosenstein, to
dismiss the special counsel.
So they are looking at that and
a number of other things that
would try to curb this sort
of scope of this
expanding investigation.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Did
any of these conflicts
of interests come up when
Mueller was originally
assigned to the task?
Did Jeff Sessions or anyone
else give him a pass on these?
ROSALIND HELDERMAN: Yes,
that's a good question that
we don't entirely know yet.
We do know that President
Trump himself has said that he
interviewed Bob Mueller to be
FBI director very shortly
before his appointment
as special counsel.
One of the conflict that we
reported today the White House
has been examining is, of
all things, Bob Mueller's
membership at the Trump
National Golf Course
in Northern Virginia.
Apparently, White House advisers
tell us there was some variety
of dispute over his membership
fees at that club.
Now, Mueller's office has
told us that's not true.
There was no membership fee
dispute, so we're continuing to
try to learn more about that.
But whatever happened at
the golf club, President
Trump clearly didn't
see it as an impediment
to potentially appointing Bob
Mueller to be FBI director, so
it's interesting that they're
now returning to that topic.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Let's talk
a little bit about the legal
team that seems to be changing,
at least faces, in
the past few days.
ROSALIND HELDERMAN:
That's right.
We saw today the resignation
of Mark Corallo, who had been
sort of the spokesman for the
team.
He had been officially the
spokesman for Marc Kasowitz.
He's a New York-based attorney
who had worked with Donald Trump
on various matters for many
years who has been until
today the leader of this team.
There have been some
reports that he is leaving
the team altogether.
Our reporting is that Kasowitz
is remaining aboard, but is
going to take a reduced role.
The leader now is John Dowd,
who was hired last month, a
veteran Washington litigator.
He had been involved in
the investigation of Pete
Rose of baseball fame.
He's leading the team.
Jay Sekulow, familiar to
television viewers, remains on
the team as sort of its public
face.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The individual
that you mentioned, Mr.
Dowd, actually came out in
The Wall Street Journal and kind
of questioned this reporting
that The Washington Post had
done and said that it's not true
that President Trump and his
team were looking into the act
of possibly pardoning
his aides or himself.
There are multiple lawyers.
Is it just the lawyers that
you spoke to vs. Mr. Dowd?
ROSALIND HELDERMAN: So, we
feel very comfortable in
our sourcing for our story.
When he said that this morning,
we did add those comments
-- they were on the record
- - to our story to
reflect his denial.
We feel comfortable that
our story was accurate
and accurately reflected
conversations that
have been going on amongst
this large legal team.
I would note Mr. Dowd gave an
interview to The Wall Street
Journal in which he said that
in fact the legal team is not
at all interested in the topic
of conflicts of interest.
Well, Jay Sekulow was quoted in
that very same story as saying
they are looking at conflicts,
that any reasonable
lawyer would do so.
So there was a conflict right
there in the same story from
two different lawyers for
the team.
HARI SREENIVASAN: If I'm
a lawyer representing
somebody like the
president, wouldn't it be
normal for me to say
let's look at the tools
that my clients have?
If one of the tools includes a
presidential pardon, shouldn't
I just investigate what
the parameters of
that pardon are?
ROSALIND HELDERMAN:
Yes, absolutely.
And as we reported, we
do believe that this
was a conversation about
legal options, that
this wasn't the president saying
that he plans to pardon himself
or that he believes he is
ultimately going to
need a pardon, which
is to say he believes
he's going to be accused
of a crime.
This was a conversation
about legal options and the
powers of the presidency.
How does the president go about
or what's the breadth of his
authority to pardon staff,
to pardon family members,
and indeed what does the
Constitution say and the law say
about a president pardoning
himself, which actually is a
question of rather distinct
dispute in the legal community?
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right,
and, finally, briefly, in the
sources that you have spoken
with, is the shakeup or
at least the changeover
in the legal team, as
well in the communications
department ,part of
something bigger?
ROSALIND HELDERMAN: I think
there's a sort of sense of a
White House on edge right now.
There's a lot of turmoil.
I certainly wouldn't
guarantee that we have seen
the end of the changes.
Of course, we will all note that
the president had those very
harsh words for Attorney General
Jeff Sessions earlier
this week in an interview
with The New York Times.
We're told that people in the
White House were quite surprised
that those comments didn't
result in Jeff
Sessions resigning.
He instead came out and said
he planned to stay on the job.
So, that's in the air.
The chief of staff, Reince
Priebus, there's been many,
many rumors that he's on his way
out.
So, I don't think that the
team is settled by any means.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All
right, Rosalind Helderman
at The Washington Post,
thanks so much for
joining us tonight.
ROSALIND HELDERMAN:
Thank you for having me.
HARI SREENIVASAN: From the
White House to Capitol Hill.
For seven months, congressional
Republicans have taken a
sharply partisan route on health
care.
They have made several attempts
to repeal and replace the
Affordable Care Act, which
have failed.
But why did Republicans go
partisan in the first place?
It's part of a cultural
shift in Congress years in
the making for both parties.
Our Lisa Desjardins explains.
LISA DESJARDINS: Congress these
days has an obvious theme.
SEN.
BERNIE SANDERS (I),
Vermont: I should think
that every Republican
should be embarrassed.
MAN: Our Democratic friends
are trying to make it more
difficult for President Trump
to do his job.
SEN.
CHUCK SCHUMER (D-NY), Minority
Leader: We urge our Republican
colleagues to change their
tune.
LISA DESJARDINS: More blame
than legislation on the floor.
Veteran GOP Senator Susan
Collins of Maine has
long been considered one
of its most bipartisan
members, but she admits
it's becoming harder.
SEN.
SUSAN COLLINS (R), Maine: We are
in a time of hyper-partisanship
that is unlike any other
that I have seen in
my time in the Senate.
LISA DESJARDINS: Some
examples this year?
Republicans going it alone on
health care, with a partisan
House vote and a Republican-only
closed-door process in
the Senate, Democrats
forcing symbolic late-night
sessions and boycotting
committee hearings,
slowing the legislative
process to a near stop.
And this month, Republican
Majority Leader Mitch
McConnell blamed
Democrats for his decision
to postpone the
Senate's August recess.
SEN.
MITCH MCCONNELL (R-KY),
Majority Leader: Due
to this unprecedented
level of obstruction
that we have been experiencing,
we will be in session the
first two weeks of August.
LISA DESJARDINS: All just five
weeks after this: a gunman
opening fire on a Republican
baseball practice, leaving House
Majority Whip Steve Scalise
initially in critical condition,
and still recovering.
The attack brought a chorus
of calls for bipartisanship.
REP.
NANCY PELOSI (D-CA), House
Minority Leader: We are not
one caucus or the other in this
House today.
REP.
PAUL RYAN (R-WI), Speaker
of the House: We are united.
LISA DESJARDINS: Later that day,
the managers of the Republican
and Democratic teams urged
an end to the sharp divide.
REP.
JOE BARTON (R), Texas: We
have an R or a D by our name,
but our title -- our title is
United States representative.
LISA DESJARDINS: We caught up
with Representatives Joe Barton
and Mike Doyle again, and asked
if things have changed.
REP.
MIKE DOYLE (D), Pennsylvania:
There's no cure for this.
And it's not just
our responsibility.
Bipartisanship either gets
fanned or, you know, encouraged
by outside forces, too.
LISA DESJARDINS: But both
say too many members get
attention now with sharp words.
REP.
JOE BARTON: At the end of
every two years, do you want
to go home and say, man, I gave
a heck of a press conference,
or do you want to put something
else on your wall, that you
have got a bill signed into law?
LISA DESJARDINS: Barton admits
he was once a young bomb
thrower, and accepts some blame
for his party.
REP.
JOE BARTON: When I got elected,
I joined the Gingrich group.
So I was a part of the
problem at the time.
LISA DESJARDINS: In the
1994 Republican Revolution,
then-new Speaker Gingrich
made partisan battles
a central strategy.
Years later, in 2013, Democrats
upped the partisan ante,
changing Senate rules to push
through some nominees
with no Republican votes.
Of course, partisanship, even
partisanship, is as old as
Congress itself, from duels,
to a near fatal beating inside
the Senate chamber, to this
staircase outside the House
chamber, where you can still
see what is said to be blood
stains from where a newspaper
reporter shot a former
member of Congress in 1890.
But divide can have a
purpose, says Amy Walter of
The Cook Political Report.
AMY WALTER, The Cook
Political Report: I don't
think partisanship in
and of itself is a bad
thing.
The challenge is when that
alone is what prevents
people from working
together to do other things.
LISA DESJARDINS: Part of the
trouble, fewer moderates.
Data from The Cook Political
Report shows that, 20 years
ago, more than a third of all
House districts were
moderate, voting similarly
to the nation as a whole.
But, since then, House districts
have become more partisan,
red or blue, and the number
of moderate or swing
seats has fallen by half.
AMY WALTER: And they have all
been replaced by ideologues
either on the left or the right.
LISA DESJARDINS: One reason,
special interest groups on the
left and the right are spending
record amounts of money
in ads, and increasingly
scoring lawmakers' votes
on sometimes narrow
issues.
Again, Susan Collins:
SEN.
SUSAN COLLINS: Unfortunately,
there's a lot of pressure
from outside special interest
groups to toe the party line.
They want 100 percent fidelity,
100 percent of the time, to
100 percent of their views.
And, if you deviate, you are
going to feel the consequences.
LISA DESJARDINS: All
this underscores how a
major issue like health
care remains unresolved,
and it sets up a great struggle.
To get anything done,
Republicans in power may soon
have to work with Democrats.
For the "PBS NewsHour,"
I'm Lisa Desjardins.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour":
what's stifling race relations
in Detroit 50 years after the
1967 riots; lessons on life and
cooking from Ina Garten; and a
behavioral scientist's advice
on talking to your
kids about marijuana.
But, first, the analysis
of Shields and Brooks.
That's syndicated columnist
Mark Shields and New York
Times columnist David Brooks.
It's good.
It looks like you're
paying attention.
(LAUGHTER)
MARK SHIELDS: Yes, Hari.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right.
So, let's start
with health care.
This week, we started
with repeal and replace.
And then it went to
repeal now, replace later.
Neither of those seem
to be going anywhere.
MARK SHIELDS: The
Republicans' health care
plan had three problems.
It wasn't healthy, it wasn't
caring, and there was no plan.
(LAUGHTER)
MARK SHIELDS: It was
just that simple.
I mean, you can't get
people to vote for something
when they don't know,
A, what it is, there's
no public case for it, but,
beyond that, it just -- the
conservatives, led by Rand Paul,
objected that it didn't root
out and repeal Obamacare.
That was correct.
And the moderates, embodied by
Susan Collins, who we just saw
in the previous piece, objected
that it was going to hurt,
unnecessarily and gratuitously,
millions of Americans who are
needy and depend on Medicaid.
True.
So, the two were
almost irreconcilable.
And I think they can't figure
out now how to leave the
field without embarrassment.
Ideally, if you're a Republican,
you do not want to vote on this.
You do not want to vote
Tuesday, because it's going
to be used against you.
It is incredibly unpopular.
It's got 16 percent
support in the country.
There is not one person
of the 213 in Republican
- - in the House of
Representatives voted against
it who regrets having
voted against it.
And there are scores of House
members in the 217 who voted
for it who are nervous that
they voted for it.
So, that's where it is.
DAVID BROOKS: Yes, I
don't think it's dead.
I think, from what I hear,
they're leaning on Mike Lee,
the senator who has been a no
vote who is the decisive no
vote, to change his mind, to
buy him out with something and
offer him something.
And then they figure, once they
get him on board, there are
probably another Republican
15 senators who would like to
vote no, but they don't want
to be the one person who kills
it.
And so the feeling, if you
can get Mike Lee, you can
get some of the others.
And they might pass it.
I wouldn't say it's likely,
but I think -- I just think
it's too early to say it's dead
now.
The second thing to say
is, Mitch McConnell has
two parts of his job.
The one is to create a
process where reasonable
legislation gets promoted.
And the second is to whip
for that legislation.
I think he did an abysmal
job on one job and a
pretty good job on job two.
As Mark said, you have got a
plan with 16 percent approval.
Nobody in the Senate likes
it, including the Republicans.
They all hate having
to vote for it.
And he still got 48 votes.
That's kind of impressive.
But the underlying problem
is, you have a chance to
change, to reform health care.
There are a lot of conservative
ideas to reform health care.
And it would solve
some problems.
You could pick some things that
a lot of people would like.
You could have catastrophic
coverage for the 20-odd million
people that are still uninsured
after Obamacare.
You could do a lot of -- offer a
lot of things to a lot of people
and do it in a conservative
way.
But that's not what this
Republican Party does.
They just say, we
want to cut Medicaid.
And they're unwilling to
talk about anything positive,
though there are some things in
the bill.
It's just, what can
we take away from you?
And what can we take away
from the poor and the
needy and the children?
And it's a publicity and
a substantive disaster
area that they're just
trying to live with.
HARI SREENIVASAN: What about
the president's role in this?
MARK SHIELDS: The president's
role in it is mercurial.
He said let Obama
founder and burn.
Then the next day,
he says no, within 24
hours to the Republican
senators, you have got to
come up with a plan.
He knows nothing
about the specifics.
about the substance.
He's made no public case for it.
I don't -- I think David
makes a very compelling point.
I would just say this, that
Mitch McConnell had a reputation
as this master strategist.
And what Mitch McConnell's
greatest accomplishment
as leader has been is
that he denied a hearing
to one of the sixth
most qualified nominees
to the Supreme Court
in the last century.
That's it.
There's a big difference between
obstruction and construction and
putting together a coalition.
And it's a lot easier to get
people to vote against something
than it is to vote for something
and to take a chance.
And when you're denied the
individual mandate, that is you
let healthy young people not pay
anything, you leave as a
pool of people for insurance
who are older and sicker.
Therefore, it's going
to be more expensive.
I mean, you know, this isn't
rocket scientists, in spite of
the president saying it's a lot
more complicated than it is.
DAVID BROOKS: I thought
something important
happened with the
Republican views with the
president.
They were having all these
meetings in the White House.
And, apparently, they'd have
these substantive meetings with
Mike Pence or with somebody
else, with staff.
And they would talk
through things.
They would try to
make some progress.
And then the president would
dip in and do something, say
something extremely stupid,
extremely ill-informed.
And then they would all
groan and live through it
and wish he would leave.
And then he would go.
And so that could be a
change in psychology.
Everybody in the Senate has
problems with the president.
But if you begin to have, oh,
he's just the crazy uncle,
like an attitude of contempt,
then relationships between
the Republicans on the Hill
and the White House really do
begin to change.
It's not some guy, oh, he
has some political magic.
It's some guy who really just
is annoying and gets in the way.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Let's talk
about the interview that he gave
to, some people would call it
the paper of record, and
the President Trump calls it
the failing New York Times.
In this conversation, which is
worth reading in its entirety,
it's just fascinating, he
lashes out at lots
of his supporters.
He undermines his
own attorney general.
He goes after almost a
broadside to Robert Mueller.
He talks about
blackmail and Comey.
What did you glean out of that?
DAVID BROOKS: First, our
subscription levels have been
way up since the Trump era.
And one of our journalists
tweeted out, we even
fail at failing.
That's how bad we are.
(LAUGHTER)
DAVID BROOKS: And there
are a couple things to
say about the interview.
One, I was shocked by the
lack of just articulateness.
We all hate it when we read
a transcript of ourselves.
It's always embarrassing,
but not that embarrassing.
These really are random --
they're not even thoughts.
They're just little word
patterns, one following
another, about Napoleon,
about this and that.
It's a disturbing level
of incoherent thinking.
Second, it is -- you know,
people who work for the White
House work for the guy 16, 20
hours a day, And
Jeff Sessions in the
administration among them,
and to dump over everybody.
And then what is interesting
to me psychologically,
usually, when someone
is corrupt or -- they
are clever.
They try to dissemble.
They mask their corruption with
some attempt to be dishonest.
Donald Trump, give him credit,
he's completely transparent.
He basically said in that
interview, my corruption can
be found in my tax returns.
If you look into my tax
returns, I will fire you.
He transmits everything that
he's thinking out in public
in an incredibly transparent
way.
So we're looking at a fact
where Bob Mueller will
probably go to the tax returns.
Donald Trump will
probably fire Bob Mueller.
And then we will be in some
sort of constitutional crisis.
And it's all telegraphed
right there out in the open.
MARK SHIELDS: I
was amazed by it.
I mean, first of all, I guess
just on a personal level, this
is a man for whom there is no
loyalty, no sense of
loyalty in anybody.
I mean, Jeff Sessions, whatever
one thinks of him, was a
Republican senator from Alabama,
the first senator in the
country to endorse Donald
Trump, and a strong supporter.
And, as attorney general, all
Donald Trump cares about, is
Jeff Sessions going to protect
me?
And it shows I think
a couple things.
It shows the obsession he has
with the Russian investigation.
There's no two ways about it.
I mean, again, he recycles
these baseless charges about
Jim Comey, that he perjured
himself in testimony before the
Senate Intelligence Committee,
which he didn't, that he leaked
confidential information,
which he didn't.
And -- but there's absolutely
no sense of loyalty that he
has to anyone else, Donald
Trump.
And I just find that -- you
know, we talk about, is there
smoke there or whatever?
His obsession with the
Russian investigation,
now he's back blaming
Rod Rosenstein for firing
Comey.
But he went on Lester Holt
on NBC News and took credit
for it, said, didn't make any
difference what Sessions
and Rosenstein recommended.
I was going to fire him anyway.
So, I'm just -- there's
no coherence to the man,
but there's an obsession.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Well, let's
talk a little bit about somebody
who has been loyal to the
president, Sean Spice,
who stepped down today.
He resigned over the
announcement that Anthony
Scaramucci was going to
be named communications
director.
Scaramucci played it down.
He and Spicer and I think Reince
Priebus were all scheduled to
go on FOX tonight in a sort
of unified show, right?
But what do you make of it?
MARK SHIELDS: Well, I mean,
Sean Spicer, prior to going to
work at the White House, those
of us who had dealt with him
over the years, he was likable,
he was helpful, he was a loyal
Republican, but
a square shooter.
As soon as he made the bargain
to go to work for Donald Trump,
you know, I don't know if
he sold his soul, but
he sold part certainly
of his self-respect.
The very first thing Trump
demanded that he do was to go
out and lie about the size of
the crowd on inauguration.
And Sean Spicer did it.
And then he lied about the
orders that Barack Obama
had, in fact, bugged,
wiretapped, President
Obama had, the headquarters
of Donald Trump's building.
And then it was that three
million undocumented immigrants
had voted on Election Day, and
that's why Donald Trump --
I mean, so, it was tragic to
watch this erosion of his own
integrity.
And he's not a bad guy
or anything of sort.
But everybody, I can honestly
say, with rare exception, who
has been associated with this
administration and
this president has
been diminished by it.
Their reputation
has been tarnished.
They're smaller people
as a result of it.
And that's tragic.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Does it
give you a glimpse into
the state of Twitter?
DAVID BROOKS: Yes.
Well, that's the exact
point I was going to make.
Yes, I can't think of anybody
whose reputation has been
enhanced by going into the Trump
administration.
Rex Tillerson was a serious
businessman, well-respected.
Jeff Sessions was a
serious senator, pretty
conservative, quite serious.
Sean Spicer was a normal
communications guy in
Congress -- or in Washington.
So he's like an anti-mentor.
He takes everybody around
him and he makes them worse.
And so that's what
Spicer had to face.
And he will have to live
with that and live with
the reputational damage
that he's incurred.
Scaramucci is a very
interesting case.
He's a guy from Long Island.
Trump is from Queens.
They made it big
financially in the big city.
They have some sort
of parallel careers.
Scaramucci is a
very friendly guy.
Everybody is sort of
like a fun game to him.
And I thought his performance
today was quite good, actually.
And so it could be that he will
flourish in this White House.
He's very smart.
He's not to be intellectually
underestimated.
It could be he's chief
of staff before long.
And we will see.
But he's someone who has a
much more deft personal manner,
as well -- while being kind
of a wild guy, than anybody
else in there right now.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Finally,
John McCain, this past week, it
was -- the entire Senate vote
was delayed because
of a surgery.
And it turned out what
they found in that surgery
was much more serious.
MARK SHIELDS: Yes.
I mean, I just think that
John McCain stands alone.
And I make no apologies for
thinking that highly of him.
At a time when you look at
these people on television,
starting with Scaramucci, a bad
guy who has a good performance,
they're flag lapel pin patriots.
John McCain never
wore a flag lapel.
John McCain didn't
wave the flag.
He defended it.
And he's been a leader in the
United States Senate on so
many issues, and especially,
I mean, not just simply taking
on big tobacco and big money,
but reaching across the aisle.
And de Gaulle said that the
cemeteries of Europe are
full of indispensable men.
I would say John McCain
is irreplaceable in
our national life.
And I just pray
that he recovers.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Very
briefly to just his
position in the Senate?
DAVID BROOKS: Yes.
We have covered him a long time.
And I think we both
think more highly of him.
He's a man with intense
internal honesty.
He sometimes did stuff that
was political, but he always
seemed to -- he never, never
lied to himself.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right,
David Brooks, Mark Shields.
The transcript of this
will be very clear.
(LAUGHTER)
HARI SREENIVASAN:
Thank you both.
MARK SHIELDS: Thank you.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Tonight, we
begin a look back, over the
next few weeks, at the unrest
that hit cities across
America in the summer of 1967.
Detroit particularly captured
the nation's attention.
Fifty years later,
special correspondent
Soledad O'Brien reports
on what sparked it all and
the scars that remain today.
MAN: On July 23, 1967,
Detroit was hit by a riot.
LORETTA HOLMES, Detroit:
Everything broke loose.
MAN: Forty-three dead, thousands
injured, and the city in flames.
WOMAN: All we could hear is
fire engines and police sirens.
JAMES CRAIG, Detroit Police
Chief: I guess, when I'm being
politically correct, I will
say unrest.
It's a riot.
It's a straight-out riot.
MAN: It was just pure rage.
WOMAN: Detroit had been what
some people thought was a model
city, a place where blacks and
whites had found a
way to get along.
MAN: There was a lot of
enmity and anger between
the young black guys and
the young white police
officers.
I think we locked up
about 7,000 people total.
WOMAN: A lot of people hollering
and screaming and saying, why
do you keep messing with us
and not go to your
neighborhoods?
WOMAN: There were more
than 2,500 buildings
that were destroyed,
looted or burned to the
ground, over 1,200 injured.
MAN: A rebellion.
WOMAN: Insurrection.
MAN: The white community
was calling it a riot.
SOLEDAD O'BRIEN: Detroit
1967, a riot or rebellion?
To this day, they still
debate what it was.
DAN MCKANE, Former Detroit
Police Officer: A lot of the
smoke was on 12th Street, which
is what it was called then.
SOLEDAD O'BRIEN: The
disturbances began on
12th Street, since renamed
Rosa Parks Boulevard.
They started spontaneously
after a routine police raid on
an illegal bar or what locals
called a blind pig.
Dan McKane was a young
street cop in Detroit's
tactical mobile unit.
DAN MCKANE: Each precinct had
a vice crew, and they would
arrest the proprietors, and
then probably write tickets
to the rest of the guys.
SOLEDAD O'BRIEN: How would
you have described the Detroit
Police Department back in 1967?
DAN MCKANE: Well, it
was majority white male.
SOLEDAD O'BRIEN: Tensions
between the police and
the African-American
community appeared
to have reached their limit.
LORETTA HOLMES:
It came to a boil.
People were just tired
of being hassled.
They was tired of them coming
into their neighborhoods.
SOLEDAD O'BRIEN: Loretta Holmes
was in that blind pig that
night, to welcome back soldiers
coming home from Vietnam.
Suddenly, police burst in.
LORETTA HOLMES: And then
I saw a sledgehammer
come through the door.
Next thing we know, the
police were in there.
They took us downstairs.
About four -- I would say three
or four paddy wagons parked.
And oh, my God, it was a
million people out there.
It's like somebody got on
the bullhorn and said, come
to 12th and Clairmount.
SOLEDAD O'BRIEN: The angry
crowd outside exploded into
five days of full-out violence.
"LIFE" magazine captured
15-year-old Frank
Robinson playing in the
rubble that was left
of 12th Street.
FRANK ROBINSON, Detroit: They
threw a couple bricks through
windows, and the police didn't
come.
People saw an opportunity.
SOLEDAD O'BRIEN: And the
opportunity was to do what?
FRANK ROBINSON: To loot.
It may have turned into a
racial situation later, but
from the beginning, it was just
people seeing an
opportunity to loot.
SOLEDAD O'BRIEN: Detroit's
violent unrest was the largest
in the U.S. in about 100 years.
Violence had also
erupted earlier in
Newark and Los Angeles.
Quickly, President Lyndon
Johnson named a commission
to explore the causes.
Named for its chair, Illinois
Governor Otto Kerner, the Kerner
Commission's only surviving
member is former Oklahoma
Senator Fred Harris.
FRED HARRIS, Former Oklahoma
Senator: What we said was, we
can describe with particularity
the conditions that
exist in the places where
these riots occur, almost
criminally inferior
schools, no jobs, housing
really terrible, and we have
to get at these kinds of basic
problems.
And that's certainly true again.
SOLEDAD O'BRIEN: What was
the biggest finding of the
Kerner Commission report?
FRED HARRIS: Our nation is
moving towards two societies,
one white, one black, separate
and unequal.
SOLEDAD O'BRIEN: The report
was rejected by the president.
None of its recommendations
were ever adopted.
SHEILA COCKREL, Former Detroit
City Councilwoman: The fact that
it never went anywhere, that
it really didn't drive the
level of policy and drive the
level of people dealing with
race, is a testament to
how deep-seated and how
tough it is to not only
have the conversations,
but to make the change
that would be required.
SOLEDAD O'BRIEN: Sheila Cockrel,
who served on the Detroit
City Council for 15 years,
says white flight already
plaguing Detroit escalated
rapidly after the unrest.
Other forces were at play.
The auto industry was
hit by an oil crisis
and foreign competition.
There were two decades
of government corruption.
In 2008 the global
financial crash hit
Detroit particularly hard.
And, then, in 2013, Detroit
became the largest municipality
ever to file for bankruptcy.
Today, Detroit police are
adamant that they are trying to
repair their relationship with
the public.
They have trained police
officers in all 12 precincts to
build stronger community ties.
Officer Donald Parker.
How do you build trust
in a neighborhood?
DONALD PARKER, Detroit Police
Department: Building now is us
filtering into the community,
saying hi to Ms. Jones,
and saying, hey, we're
here, we're here, we're
touchable, we're reachable,
to let them know not
to be afraid of us.
SOLEDAD O'BRIEN: The composition
of the force has also changed.
In 1967, it was 5
percent African-American.
Today, it is about 65 percent
African-American, including
the chief, James Craig.
JAMES CRAIG: Well, what happened
50 years ago, I can't say
would never happen in Detroit,
because there's still issues.
We have one of the highest
poverty rates, and while we have
an above-average relationship
with the community, there's
the issue of opportunities.
And while that's getting better
and while the city has made
a major turnaround, there's
still this belief that, while
the turnaround is happening
in certain parts of the city,
it's not in others.
SOLEDAD O'BRIEN: A sign of
the work remaining to be done:
Detroit's poverty rate is double
what it was in 1967.
The city struggles with
segregation, inadequate
housing and has the
lowest school test scores
and graduation
rates in the nation.
Anika Goss-Foster is with Future
City Detroit, which imagines
modern-day uses for blighted
properties.
Goss-Foster's focus
is the next 50 years.
ANIKA GOSS-FOSTER, Detroit
Future City: We call
them dinosaurs, where
there are old monster
plants that are now sitting
vacant in the middle of
residential neighborhoods.
SOLEDAD O'BRIEN: The old Packard
plant, a dinosaur, abandoned
since the 1990s, is being
developed into the shops
and galleries in hopes of
reviving the neighborhood.
ANIKA GOSS-FOSTER: Things aren't
happening the way as quickly
as they want it to happen.
And they certainly aren't
happening at a rate
where it should happen.
But if you really pushed,
there are a lot of good things
happening all over the city.
There are parks that are
being taken care of that have
never been taken care of bore.
The city is completely lit.
People are much more involved
in their neighborhoods
than they have ever been.
SOLEDAD O'BRIEN:
Entrepreneurs and business
leaders have transformed
7.2 miles of downtown
into a booming neighborhood that
has attracted tourists, tech
start-ups and new businesses.
But the boom hasn't yet trickled
down into the neighborhoods
that Goss-Foster is trying
to develop.
ANIKA GOSS-FOSTER: I think
that there are a lot of black
people that would say they
do feel left out.
I wouldn't say that
they feel ignored.
I think they feel like,
when is it my turn?
SOLEDAD O'BRIEN: Right,
to get investment.
ANIKA GOSS-FOSTER: To
get the same kind of
attention and investment.
SOLEDAD O'BRIEN: Neglect felt
firsthand by Loretta Holmes.
LORETTA HOLMES: We
don't have anything.
There's nothing there anymore.
SOLEDAD O'BRIEN: So, what
happened to the neighborhoods?
LORETTA HOLMES:
People moved out.
They left.
They walked away.
No kept the property up.
SOLEDAD O'BRIEN: Loretta
Holmes stayed behind.
LORETTA HOLMES: We
were in Central.
We were totally a community.
We were a community.
This is what we did.
We took care of each other.
SOLEDAD O'BRIEN: She mentors
students at her alma mater,
Detroit's Central High.
LORETTA HOLMES: We
give scholarships.
We go ahead and we will buy the
jerseys for the football team.
Kids that doesn't have a
coat, we do it undercover,
because we don't want
the other kids to know.
SOLEDAD O'BRIEN: Her investment
in kids is what gives her
hope for a better future for
Detroit.
Is the city of Detroit
better off today than it was?
LORETTA HOLMES: Heck no.
SOLEDAD O'BRIEN: In the '60s?
LORETTA HOLMES: No.
No.
No, because it's...
SOLEDAD O'BRIEN: Better
off than five years ago?
LORETTA HOLMES:
Than five years ago?
Yes, because now I
can see the change.
I really can.
SOLEDAD O'BRIEN: Change that,
for a city with a history of
racial conflict and struggle,
is long overdue.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
Soledad O'Brien in Detroit.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Now we visit
one of the most successful,
prolific women in America,
the creative force behind
the Barefoot Contessa
cookbooks and TV shows.
William Brangham recently
went to see Ina Garten at her
home on Long Island, New York,
and has this look at
her life and career.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Can
I have another bite?
INA GARTEN, Chef: You can
have as much as you like.
(LAUGHTER)
WILLIAM BRANGHAM:
This is the best job.
(LAUGHTER)
INA GARTEN: Isn't it?
This is what I get
to do for a living.
Isn't it unbelievable?
WILLIAM BRANGHAM:
It's fantastic.
Ina Garten is one of the
most famous and beloved
cooks in America today.
Better known as the
Barefoot Contessa, she
sits atop a culinary empire
built on her bestselling
cookbooks, with millions
of copies sold, a
string of hit TV shows.
INA GARTEN: Just because it's
a weeknight dinner doesn't
mean it has to be boring.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: And a
legion of devoted fans.
INA GARTEN: This is my
little secret garden.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: We
visited Garten at her
home and headquarters
in East Hampton, New
York.
We talked in the huge
barn she had built next
to her House that's now
her office, test kitchen
and TV studio, all in one.
INA GARTEN: This is where
the show is shot, and this
is where we test recipes.
And every morning, I walk
across the lawn and I meet the
two people, Barbara and Lidey,
who work with me.
And we just go, OK, what
are we going to do today?
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: That's
the extent of your commute?
INA GARTEN: That's my commute.
(LAUGHTER)
INA GARTEN: It's like 100 yards,
I think, maybe less, maybe 50.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM:
Pretty amazing.
INA GARTEN: It's pretty amazing.
I usually just put it
right in the middle.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Garten's
career began 40 years ago.
But, at first, she gave no
hint as to how she'd evolve.
In the 1970s, newly married to
husband Jeffrey, Garten was a
budget analyst in Washington,
D.C.,
INA GARTEN: I was
working at OMB, Office of
Management and Budget.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: For
the federal government?
INA GARTEN: Yes,
for Ford and Carter.
And I worked on
nuclear energy policy.
How's that for precedent
for the food business?
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: It
makes no sense whatsoever.
(LAUGHTER)
INA GARTEN: I ran from it.
And by the late '70s, I thought,
I have been working here for
four years, and nothing has
happened.
And I just didn't feel like
I had any impact on anything.
And I hit 30, and I thought, I
want to do what I want to do.
And I thought, I want to
be in the food business.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: One day, she
saw an ad for a specialty food
store for sale in the Hamptons,
the exclusive beach
destination for New Yorkers.
INA GARTEN: I went home and
I told Jeffrey about it, and
he said, pick something you
love to do.
If you love doing it, you
will be really good at it.
And so I made her a very low
offer, the woman who was selling
it, thinking, well, we will
come back.
We will negotiate.
We drove back to Washington.
I was in my office the next
day and the phone rang.
And she said, thank
you very much.
I accept your offer.
And I just remember going,
oh (EXPLETIVE DELETED).
(LAUGHTER)
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: What
have I gotten myself into?
INA GARTEN: What have I done?
WILLIAM BRANGHAM:
And that was it?
INA GARTEN: That was it.
Two months later, I was behind
the counter of a specialty
foods store, trying to figure
it out.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: The
store she bought was called
the Barefoot Contessa.
That was the nickname
of the prior owner.
It was 1978, and this
was Garten's very first
job in the food industry.
So, had you been a cook before?
INA GARTEN: No.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Not at all?
INA GARTEN: I'd never
worked in a store.
I never worked in a restaurant.
I mean, I cooked at
home, but that's not
really the same thing.
I taught myself how to cook
when I worked in Washington
using Julia Child's cookbooks.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: And you have
had no training beyond that?
INA GARTEN: No.
No.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM:
That's amazing.
INA GARTEN: Thank you.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: The store was
a smash, and later moved to a
bigger location in East Hampton.
After 18 years, she sold
the store and tried her
hand at a new venture.
In 1999, the Barefoot Contessa
cookbook was published, and it
quickly became a bestseller.
Nine additional books have
followed, each a bestseller.
All contain her trademark
simple and accessible recipes.
INA GARTEN: I think that I
had a very clear vision when I
started writing cookbooks what
I wanted it to be, and that you
would open the book, that you
would look at the photograph
and go, that looks delicious.
And then you would look at the
recipe and say, I can actually
make that and I can make
it with ingredients I can
find in the grocery store.
I don't think that's
changed at all.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Having taught
yourself how to cook, does
that inform the recipes that
end up in your book, because
you're thinking of them not
from a professionally trained
mind, but someone who
did this on her own?
INA GARTEN: That's really smart.
Actually, when I first started
writing cookbooks, I remember
thinking to myself, what makes
me think I can write a cookbook?
There are these great chefs
who are really trained.
And, as I started, I realized,
actually, what is my lack is
actually exactly right, because
I can connect with --
cooking's hard for me.
I never worked on...
WILLIAM BRANGHAM:
Cooking is hard for you?
INA GARTEN: It is
so hard for me.
Anybody that works
with me will tell you.
It's so hard for me.
And that's why my recipes
are really simple, because I
want to be able to do them.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Soon,
executives at the Food Network
came calling, and calling, and
calling.
I understand you were reluctant
at first to do television?
INA GARTEN: Reluctant
is the understatement.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Really?
INA GARTEN: I just said no
over and over and over again.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Why?
INA GARTEN: I just didn't
think I'd be good on TV.
I just couldn't imagine
why anybody would watch it.
And Food Network,
fortunately, kept coming
back again and again.
And they said, just try it.
And I thought, well, I will
just do 13 shows, and then
they will leave me alone.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: And that
was how many shows later?
INA GARTEN: And, happily,
that was 15 years later.
(LAUGHTER)
INA GARTEN: I'm still doing it.
I'm going to show you my
recipes and my techniques.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: The
Barefoot Contessa series
is now 13 seasons' strong.
INA GARTEN: You too
can cook like a pro.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Her latest
version, "Cook Like a Pro,"
shows tips and techniques aimed
at helping viewers become more
comfortable in the kitchen.
INA GARTEN: Everything you
need to know, from trussing
the bird to carving it.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: What do
you know of your audience?
Who is watching it?
INA GARTEN: You know, there's
this moment in time when I
really got a vision of who
the audience was.
I was walking up Madison
Avenue, and there was a
woman in a big fur coat.
And she said, "Oh, darling,
love your cookbooks."
And I thought, that's very nice.
Then I kept going.
About a half-a-block later, a
truck driver pulled over and
said, "Hey, baby, love your
show."
(LAUGHTER)
INA GARTEN: And I
thought, that's food.
I think my cookbook audience
might be slightly different
from my TV audience, but I think
they're people that
are interested in food,
and that's everybody.
You're doing a beautiful
job, I have to tell you.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM:
You're just saying that.
(LAUGHTER)
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: During
our visit, Garten showed
us a few simple recipes.
You can see her demonstrate
them on our Web site.
Meanwhile, she says her days
are now spent testing new
recipes for her upcoming 11th
cookbook.
It's due in the
fall of next year.
INA GARTEN: I love
what I'm doing.
I'm really happy doing it, and
I hope I can do It forever.
And I'm having a ball.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Ina Garten,
so great to talk to you.
Thank you very much.
INA GARTEN: Well, it was so much
fun to talk to you too, William.
(LAUGHTER)
HARI SREENIVASAN: Online,
one "NewsHour" staffer
shares what Ina Garten
taught her about life,
love, and dijon vinaigrette.
That's at PBS.org/NewsHour.
Finally tonight: With marijuana
legal in some form in 26 states
and the District of Columbia,
many of our kids have
questions about pot.
RAND Corporation behavioral
scientist Elizabeth
D'Amico offers her
humble opinion on how to
answer their queries.
ELIZABETH D'AMICO,
RAND Corporation: Among
family and friends, I'm
regarded as the Dear
Abby of adolescent
so-called bad behavior.
Here's the reason why.
Because I have researched
alcohol and drug use among teens
for more than 20 years, and
I'm a parent, people
always assume I have
devised a foolproof
strategy for talking to
kids about such issues.
Lately, I have been fielding
a lot of questions about
marijuana legalization.
I do feel like I have an
edge when it comes to talking
to my kids about marijuana.
But, sometimes, it seems like
I am sharing information on
the fly, as I drive my kids
down a busy L.A.
street to school.
Since recreational marijuana
was legalized in California
last fall, a new billboards
pop up all the time to advertise
the fine art of smoking
weed and where to buy it.
This leads my kids, 11 and
13, to ask a lot of questions:
Why do people smoke marijuana?
It can't be bad if
it's legal and they can
advertise, right, mom?
As always, it is best
to give balanced, honest
answers based on facts.
Why do people smoke marijuana?
Some may smoke it for medical
reasons, to help with pain.
Others may smoke
it recreationally.
Parents might liken
it to alcohol.
You know how some people
have a glass of wine
with dinner to relax?
Now some may smoke pot
for the same reason.
But it's also important that
your kids know that getting can
change their mood and behavior.
And just like alcohol, tell
your kids it's illegal to drive
after you have smoked pot.
I tell my kids the main reason
that marijuana is illegal for
those under 21 is because their
brains are still developing,
and marijuana can affect their
concentration and memory.
It may mean you don't
do as well in school.
That can mean fewer
opportunities, like
getting a good job.
Given this changing legal
landscape, my kids and yours are
going to be exposed to marijuana
as frequently as
they are to alcohol.
And now that it's legal, here
come the marketing campaigns,
which all make smoking pot seem
normal.
And just like alcohol and
tobacco ads, marijuana ads
may influence their choices.
My own research has shown that
middle school kids who reported
seeing ads for medical marijuana
were more likely to report
smoking pot one year later.
You can't just say, don't do it.
But you can get the facts, share
them with your kids, and help
them make a healthy choice.
HARI SREENIVASAN: On
the "NewsHour" online
right now: Virginia's
closely watched governor's
race could offer hints
about the 2018 election.
We will be live-streaming
tomorrow's gubernatorial
debate, moderated by
our own Judy Woodruff,
at our Web site
starting at 11:00 a.m.
Eastern.
Also, you can now watch a
short documentary compiled from
our special reporting series
Inside Putin's Russia.
All that and more is on our
Web site, PBS.org/NewsHour.
Robert Costa is preparing
for "Washington Week."
Bob, what do you got?
ROBERT COSTA: Well, we will
have more on the staff shakeup
at the White House, and we will
tell you why Press Secretary
Sean Spicer's exit could be
a sign of bigger tremors to
come, plus, why President Trump
keeps criticizing the special
counsel investigating Russia.
That's later tonight on
"Washington Week" - - Hari.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Thanks.
Tomorrow on "PBS NewsHour
Weekend": New Jersey
launches one of the
most comprehensive bail
reform efforts in the nation.
And we will be back right here
on Monday with a look at the
road ahead for Democrats with
Tom Perez, head of the DNC.
That's the "NewsHour"
for tonight.
I'm Hari Sreenivasan.
Have a great weekend.
Thank you.
Good night.